README.md, before:

![shimmer_meow_logo](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7df96ff8-e305-473d-b1ed-8f3c7341ce2e)

> **Alpha Software** — This project is in early development. APIs and workflow formats may change without notice. Not recommended for production use.

**Meow Executors Orchestrate Work** — The Makefile of agent orchestration.

No Python. No cloud. No magic. Just tmux, TOML, and a binary.

## Why MEOW?

The AI agent orchestration space is full of frameworks: LangChain, CrewAI, Claude-Flow, cloud-managed agents. They offer sophisticated features—memory systems, vector databases, MCP tools, visual builders.

**MEOW takes the opposite approach.**

| Framework Approach | MEOW Approach |
|--------------------|---------------|
| Python SDK with dependencies | Single Go binary |
| Cloud services and databases | TOML files on disk |
| Agents as API endpoints | Agents as terminal processes |
| Framework-specific agent code | Any terminal agent, unchanged |
| Visual builders, dashboards | `git diff`-able TOML templates |

MEOW is for developers who use Claude Code or Aider, want multi-agent workflows, and don't want to adopt a framework ecosystem. If you need enterprise features or turnkey agent capabilities, look at [Claude-Flow](https://github.com/ruvnet/claude-flow) or [LangGraph](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/).

## Installation

**Quick install (Linux/macOS):**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/akatz-ai/meow/main/install.sh | sh
```

**With Go:**
```bash
go install github.com/akatz-ai/meow/cmd/meow@latest
```

**From source:**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/akatz-ai/meow
cd meow
make install
```

**Manual download:**
Download pre-built binaries from [Releases](https://github.com/akatz-ai/meow/releases).

## Getting Started

Initialize MEOW in your project:

```bash
cd your-project
meow init
```

This creates the following structure:

```
.meow/
├── config.toml      # Project configuration
├── AGENTS.md        # Guidelines for agents in workflows
├── templates/       # Workflow templates (starter templates included)
│   ├── simple.meow.toml
│   └── tdd.meow.toml
├── lib/             # Standard library templates
│   ├── agent-persistence.meow.toml  # Ralph Wiggum pattern
│   ├── claude-events.meow.toml      # Hook configuration
│   └── worktree.meow.toml           # Git worktree helper
├── adapters/        # Agent adapter configs
│   ├── claude/
│   ├── codex/
│   └── opencode/
├── runs/            # Runtime state (gitignored)
└── logs/            # Per-run logs (gitignored)
```

The `AGENTS.md` file contains guidelines for AI agents working within workflows—session protocol, completion signals, and best practices. Include it in agent worktrees or reference from your project's `CLAUDE.md`.

Run your first workflow:

```bash
meow run .meow/templates/simple.meow.toml --var agent=my-agent
```

## How It Works

MEOW templates are programs. The orchestrator **pushes** prompts directly into running terminal sessions via tmux—it literally types into the agent's terminal and waits for `meow done`.

```
Templates = Programs (version-controlled .meow.toml files)
Steps     = Instructions within a template
Executors = Who runs each instruction (7 total)
Runs      = Running instances (runtime state)
```

### 7 Executors

| Executor | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `shell` | Run commands, capture outputs |
| `spawn` | Start an agent in tmux |
| `kill` | Stop an agent session |
| `expand` | Inline another template |
| `branch` | Conditional execution |
| `foreach` | Iterate over lists |
| `agent` | Prompt agent, wait for completion |

Loops, parallel execution, human gates, retries—all emerge from composing these primitives.

## Example

```bash
meow run work-loop.meow.toml --var agent=claude-1
```

```toml
# work-loop.meow.toml

[main]
name = "work-loop"

[main.variables]
agent = { required = true }

[[main.steps]]
id = "start"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "{{agent}}"

[[main.steps]]
id = "select-task"
executor = "agent"
agent = "{{agent}}"
prompt = "Pick a task from the backlog."
needs = ["start"]
[main.steps.outputs]
task_id = { required = true, type = "string" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "implement"
executor = "agent"
agent = "{{agent}}"
prompt = "Implement {{select-task.outputs.task_id}} using TDD."
needs = ["select-task"]

[[main.steps]]
id = "cleanup"
executor = "kill"
agent = "{{agent}}"
needs = ["implement"]
```

Steps communicate through outputs (like GitHub Actions):

```toml
[[main.steps]]
id = "get-branch"
executor = "shell"
command = "git branch --show-current"
[main.steps.outputs]
branch = { source = "stdout" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "implement"
executor = "agent"
prompt = "Work on {{get-branch.outputs.branch}}"
needs = ["get-branch"]
```

## Tradeoffs

**MEOW gives you:** Simplicity, no vendor lock-in, version-controlled workflows, works with any terminal agent, easy debugging (just tmux + TOML).

**MEOW does NOT give you:** Built-in memory/RAG, observability dashboards, managed deployment, guaranteed crash recovery (best-effort only).

This isn't a limitation—it's the point. MEOW coordinates; you build the rest.

## Documentation

- **[Architecture](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md)** — Core principles, design decisions, and the 7 executors
- **[Patterns](docs/PATTERNS.md)** — Common workflow patterns: work loops, Ralph Wiggum persistence, human gates, parallel agents

## Status

**Alpha** — MEOW is under active development. The core orchestrator is functional and all 7 executors are implemented, but:

- **APIs may change** — Command flags, config formats, and template syntax could change between versions
- **No stability guarantees** — Workflow files from today may need updates to work with future versions
- **Limited testing** — While we have tests, edge cases exist; expect bugs
- **No migration tooling** — Breaking changes won't include automatic migration paths

**Use at your own risk.** MEOW is great for experimentation and personal projects, but we don't recommend it for production workloads yet.

Contributions, bug reports, and feedback are welcome.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: add Claude Code skill installation section

README.md, after:

![shimmer_meow_logo](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7df96ff8-e305-473d-b1ed-8f3c7341ce2e)

> **Alpha Software** — This project is in early development. APIs and workflow formats may change without notice. Not recommended for production use.

**Meow Executors Orchestrate Work** — The Makefile of agent orchestration.

No Python. No cloud. No magic. Just tmux, TOML, and a binary.

## Why MEOW?

The AI agent orchestration space is full of frameworks: LangChain, CrewAI, Claude-Flow, cloud-managed agents. They offer sophisticated features—memory systems, vector databases, MCP tools, visual builders.

**MEOW takes the opposite approach.**

| Framework Approach | MEOW Approach |
|--------------------|---------------|
| Python SDK with dependencies | Single Go binary |
| Cloud services and databases | TOML files on disk |
| Agents as API endpoints | Agents as terminal processes |
| Framework-specific agent code | Any terminal agent, unchanged |
| Visual builders, dashboards | `git diff`-able TOML templates |

MEOW is for developers who use Claude Code or Aider, want multi-agent workflows, and don't want to adopt a framework ecosystem. If you need enterprise features or turnkey agent capabilities, look at [Claude-Flow](https://github.com/ruvnet/claude-flow) or [LangGraph](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/).

## Installation

**Quick install (Linux/macOS):**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/akatz-ai/meow/main/install.sh | sh
```

**With Go:**
```bash
go install github.com/akatz-ai/meow/cmd/meow@latest
```

**From source:**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/akatz-ai/meow
cd meow
make install
```

**Manual download:**
Download pre-built binaries from [Releases](https://github.com/akatz-ai/meow/releases).

### Claude Code Skill

If you use [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code), install the MEOW skill to get contextual help with workflows, templates, and debugging:

```bash
# Add the marketplace
/plugin marketplace add akatz-ai/meow-skill

# Install the skill
/plugin install meow
```

Once installed, Claude will automatically understand MEOW concepts when working in projects with a `.meow/` directory. Ask Claude to help you set up MEOW, create workflows, or debug issues.

## Getting Started

Initialize MEOW in your project:

```bash
cd your-project
meow init
```

This creates the following structure:

```
.meow/
├── config.toml      # Project configuration
├── AGENTS.md        # Guidelines for agents in workflows
├── templates/       # Workflow templates (starter templates included)
│   ├── simple.meow.toml
│   └── tdd.meow.toml
├── lib/             # Standard library templates
│   ├── agent-persistence.meow.toml  # Ralph Wiggum pattern
│   ├── claude-events.meow.toml      # Hook configuration
│   └── worktree.meow.toml           # Git worktree helper
├── adapters/        # Agent adapter configs
│   ├── claude/
│   ├── codex/
│   └── opencode/
├── runs/            # Runtime state (gitignored)
└── logs/            # Per-run logs (gitignored)
```

The `AGENTS.md` file contains guidelines for AI agents working within workflows—session protocol, completion signals, and best practices. Include it in agent worktrees or reference from your project's `CLAUDE.md`.

Run your first workflow:

```bash
meow run .meow/templates/simple.meow.toml --var agent=my-agent
```

## How It Works

MEOW templates are programs. The orchestrator **pushes** prompts directly into running terminal sessions via tmux—it literally types into the agent's terminal and waits for `meow done`.

```
Templates = Programs (version-controlled .meow.toml files)
Steps     = Instructions within a template
Executors = Who runs each instruction (7 total)
Runs      = Running instances (runtime state)
```

### 7 Executors

| Executor | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `shell` | Run commands, capture outputs |
| `spawn` | Start an agent in tmux |
| `kill` | Stop an agent session |
| `expand` | Inline another template |
| `branch` | Conditional execution |
| `foreach` | Iterate over lists |
| `agent` | Prompt agent, wait for completion |

Loops, parallel execution, human gates, retries—all emerge from composing these primitives.

## Example

```bash
meow run work-loop.meow.toml --var agent=claude-1
```

```toml
# work-loop.meow.toml

[main]
name = "work-loop"

[main.variables]
agent = { required = true }

[[main.steps]]
id = "start"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "{{agent}}"

[[main.steps]]
id = "select-task"
executor = "agent"
agent = "{{agent}}"
prompt = "Pick a task from the backlog."
needs = ["start"]
[main.steps.outputs]
task_id = { required = true, type = "string" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "implement"
executor = "agent"
agent = "{{agent}}"
prompt = "Implement {{select-task.outputs.task_id}} using TDD."
needs = ["select-task"]

[[main.steps]]
id = "cleanup"
executor = "kill"
agent = "{{agent}}"
needs = ["implement"]
```

Steps communicate through outputs (like GitHub Actions):

```toml
[[main.steps]]
id = "get-branch"
executor = "shell"
command = "git branch --show-current"
[main.steps.outputs]
branch = { source = "stdout" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "implement"
executor = "agent"
prompt = "Work on {{get-branch.outputs.branch}}"
needs = ["get-branch"]
```

## Tradeoffs

**MEOW gives you:** Simplicity, no vendor lock-in, version-controlled workflows, works with any terminal agent, easy debugging (just tmux + TOML).

**MEOW does NOT give you:** Built-in memory/RAG, observability dashboards, managed deployment, guaranteed crash recovery (best-effort only).

This isn't a limitation—it's the point. MEOW coordinates; you build the rest.

## Documentation

- **[Architecture](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md)** — Core principles, design decisions, and the 7 executors
- **[Patterns](docs/PATTERNS.md)** — Common workflow patterns: work loops, Ralph Wiggum persistence, human gates, parallel agents

## Status

**Alpha** — MEOW is under active development. The core orchestrator is functional and all 7 executors are implemented, but:

- **APIs may change** — Command flags, config formats, and template syntax could change between versions
- **No stability guarantees** — Workflow files from today may need updates to work with future versions
- **Limited testing** — While we have tests, edge cases exist; expect bugs
- **No migration tooling** — Breaking changes won't include automatic migration paths

**Use at your own risk.** MEOW is great for experimentation and personal projects, but we don't recommend it for production workloads yet.

Contributions, bug reports, and feedback are welcome.

## License

MIT
