docs/PATTERNS.md, before:

# MEOW Patterns

Common patterns for MEOW workflows. These are battle-tested approaches implemented in the library templates.

---

## Basic Work Loop

A single agent that picks tasks and implements them in a loop.

```toml
[main]
name = "work-loop"

cleanup_on_success = """
git worktree remove .meow/worktrees/{{agent}} --force 2>/dev/null || true
"""

[main.variables]
agent = { required = true }

[[main.steps]]
id = "create-worktree"
executor = "shell"
command = """
git worktree add -b meow/{{agent}} .meow/worktrees/{{agent}} HEAD 2>/dev/null || true
echo ".meow/worktrees/{{agent}}"
"""

[main.steps.outputs]
path = { source = "stdout" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "spawn"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "{{agent}}"
workdir = "{{create-worktree.outputs.path}}"
needs = ["create-worktree"]

[[main.steps]]
id = "work"
executor = "agent"
agent = "{{agent}}"
prompt = """
Find and implement the next task.
When done, output whether there are more tasks.
"""
needs = ["spawn"]

[main.steps.outputs]
has_more = { required = true, type = "boolean" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "continue"
executor = "branch"
condition = "test '{{work.outputs.has_more}}' = 'true'"
needs = ["work"]

[main.steps.on_true]
template = ".work-iteration"
variables = { agent = "{{agent}}" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "cleanup"
executor = "kill"
agent = "{{agent}}"
needs = ["continue"]
```

---

## Ralph Wiggum (Agent Persistence)

Keep an agent working even when it stops unexpectedly. Uses event-based monitoring.

**Prerequisites:** Agent must emit `agent-stopped` events via its stop hook.

```toml
# Use the library template
[[main.steps]]
id = "spawn"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "worker"
workdir = "{{worktree}}"

[[main.steps]]
id = "main-work"
executor = "agent"
agent = "worker"
prompt = "Implement the feature..."
needs = ["spawn"]

# Start persistence monitor in parallel
[[main.steps]]
id = "persistence"
executor = "expand"
template = "lib/agent-persistence#monitor"
needs = ["spawn"]

[main.steps.variables]
agent = "worker"
nudge_prompt = "Continue working. Run 'meow done' when finished."
check_step = "main-work"

# Kill depends on main work, NOT the monitor
[[main.steps]]
id = "cleanup"
executor = "kill"
agent = "worker"
needs = ["main-work"]
```

**How it works:**
1. Monitor runs in parallel with main work
2. Waits for `agent-stopped` events with timeout
3. On event: re-injects nudge prompt via `fire_forget`
4. Checks if main step is done; loops if not
5. Self-terminates when main step completes

See `lib/agent-persistence.meow.toml` for the full implementation.

---

## Human Approval Gate

Block workflow until a human approves or rejects.

```toml
[[steps]]
id = "notify"
executor = "shell"
command = """
echo "=== REVIEW REQUIRED ==="
echo "Approve: meow approve review-gate --workflow {{workflow_id}}"
echo "Reject:  meow reject review-gate --workflow {{workflow_id}} --reason '...'"
"""

[[steps]]
id = "review-gate"
executor = "branch"
condition = "meow await-approval review-gate --timeout 24h"
needs = ["notify"]

[steps.on_true]
inline = []  # Continue on approval

[steps.on_false]
template = ".handle-rejection"
```

**How it works:**
- `meow approve` emits a `gate-approved` event
- `meow reject` emits a `gate-rejected` event
- `meow await-approval` waits for either event (exit 0 on approve, exit 1 on reject/timeout)

This uses the same event routing infrastructure as agent events, keeping the orchestrator simple.

---

## Parallel Agents with Join

Run multiple agents in parallel, then synchronize.

```toml
# Create worktrees in parallel
[[steps]]
id = "create-frontend-wt"
executor = "shell"
command = "git worktree add ... && echo path"

[steps.outputs]
path = { source = "stdout" }

[[steps]]
id = "create-backend-wt"
executor = "shell"
command = "git worktree add ... && echo path"

[steps.outputs]
path = { source = "stdout" }

# Spawn agents (can run in parallel since worktrees are independent)
[[steps]]
id = "spawn-frontend"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "frontend"
workdir = "{{create-frontend-wt.outputs.path}}"
needs = ["create-frontend-wt"]

[[steps]]
id = "spawn-backend"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "backend"
workdir = "{{create-backend-wt.outputs.path}}"
needs = ["create-backend-wt"]

# Work in parallel
[[steps]]
id = "frontend-work"
executor = "agent"
agent = "frontend"
prompt = "Implement the frontend..."
needs = ["spawn-frontend"]

[[steps]]
id = "backend-work"
executor = "agent"
agent = "backend"
prompt = "Implement the backend..."
needs = ["spawn-backend"]

# JOIN: waits for BOTH agents
[[steps]]
id = "integration"
executor = "agent"
agent = "frontend"
prompt = "Both done. Integrate and verify."
needs = ["frontend-work", "backend-work"]
```

**Key insight:** The join is implicit—any step with multiple `needs` waits for all of them.

---

## Dynamic Parallel (foreach)

Iterate over a runtime-generated list with parallel execution.

```toml
[[steps]]
id = "plan"
executor = "agent"
agent = "planner"
prompt = "Break this feature into subtasks. Output as JSON array."

[steps.outputs]
tasks = { required = true, type = "json" }

[[steps]]
id = "parallel-work"
executor = "foreach"
items = "{{plan.outputs.tasks}}"
item_var = "task"
index_var = "i"
template = ".worker-task"
max_concurrent = "3"
needs = ["plan"]

[steps.variables]
task_description = "{{task.description}}"
agent_id = "worker-{{i}}"

[[steps]]
id = "merge"
executor = "agent"
agent = "planner"
prompt = "All workers done. Merge the results."
needs = ["parallel-work"]  # Waits for ALL iterations (implicit join)
```

**Options:**
- `parallel = false` - Run iterations sequentially
- `join = false` - Don't wait for iterations (fire-and-forget)
- `max_concurrent = "N"` - Limit concurrent iterations

---

## Context Monitoring

Monitor agent context usage and trigger compaction when high.

```toml
[context-monitor]
internal = true

[[context-monitor.steps]]
id = "wait"
executor = "shell"
command = "sleep 30"

[[context-monitor.steps]]
id = "check-session"
executor = "branch"
condition = "tmux has-session -t meow-${MEOW_WORKFLOW}-{{agent}} 2>/dev/null"
needs = ["wait"]

[context-monitor.steps.on_false]
inline = []  # Session gone, exit

[context-monitor.steps.on_true]
template = ".check-context-level"

[check-context-level]
internal = true

[[check-context-level.steps]]
id = "get-percent"
executor = "shell"
command = """
# Screen-scrape tmux for context percentage
SESSION="meow-${MEOW_WORKFLOW}-{{agent}}"
PERCENT=$(tmux capture-pane -p -t "$SESSION" -S -100 2>/dev/null | \
    grep -oE '[0-9]+%' | tail -1 | tr -d '%')
echo "${PERCENT:-0}"
"""

[check-context-level.steps.outputs]
percent = { source = "stdout" }

[[check-context-level.steps]]
id = "check-threshold"
executor = "branch"
condition = "test {{get-percent.outputs.percent}} -ge 85"
needs = ["get-percent"]

[check-context-level.steps.on_true]
template = ".inject-compact"

[check-context-level.steps.on_false]
template = ".context-monitor"  # Loop

[inject-compact]
internal = true

[[inject-compact.steps]]
id = "compact"
executor = "agent"
agent = "{{agent}}"
prompt = "/compact"
mode = "fire_forget"

[[inject-compact.steps]]
id = "wait"
executor = "shell"
command = "sleep 60"
needs = ["compact"]

[[inject-compact.steps]]
id = "continue"
executor = "expand"
template = ".context-monitor"
needs = ["wait"]
```

---

## Fire-and-Forget Commands

Send commands to agents without waiting for completion.

```toml
# Send /compact without waiting
[[steps]]
id = "trigger-compact"
executor = "agent"
agent = "worker"
prompt = "/compact"
mode = "fire_forget"

# Send Escape to interrupt
[[steps]]
id = "interrupt"
executor = "agent"
agent = "worker"
prompt = "Escape"
mode = "fire_forget"
```

**Use cases:**
- Slash commands (`/compact`, `/clear`)
- Key presses (`Escape`)
- Any prompt where you don't need a response

---

## Conditional Branching

Run different paths based on a condition.

```toml
[[steps]]
id = "check-tests"
executor = "branch"
condition = "npm test"

[steps.on_true]
template = ".deploy"  # Tests pass, deploy

[steps.on_false]
template = ".fix-tests"  # Tests fail, fix them
```

**With timeout:**
```toml
[[steps]]
id = "wait-for-ci"
executor = "branch"
condition = "./scripts/wait-for-ci.sh"
timeout = "30m"

[steps.on_true]
inline = []  # CI passed

[steps.on_false]
template = ".handle-ci-failure"

[steps.on_timeout]
template = ".handle-ci-timeout"
```

---

## Idempotent Shell Commands

Shell commands should be safe to re-run (for crash recovery).

**Bad:**
```toml
command = "git worktree add -b meow/agent .meow/worktrees/agent HEAD"
# Fails if worktree exists
```

**Good:**
```toml
command = """
if [ ! -d ".meow/worktrees/agent" ]; then
  git worktree add -b meow/agent .meow/worktrees/agent HEAD
fi
echo ".meow/worktrees/agent"
"""
```

**Also good (suppress errors):**
```toml
command = """
git worktree add -b meow/agent .meow/worktrees/agent HEAD 2>/dev/null || true
echo ".meow/worktrees/agent"
"""
```

---

## Setting Up Claude Events

Configure Claude Code's Stop hook to emit MEOW events.

```toml
[[steps]]
id = "setup-hooks"
executor = "shell"
command = """
mkdir -p {{worktree}}/.claude
cat > {{worktree}}/.claude/settings.json << 'EOF'
{
  "hooks": {
    "Stop": [{"type": "command", "command": "meow event agent-stopped"}]
  }
}
EOF
"""

[[steps]]
id = "spawn"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "worker"
workdir = "{{worktree}}"
needs = ["setup-hooks"]
```

See `lib/claude-events.meow.toml` for a reusable template.

---

## Best Practices

1. **Cleanup on success only** - Preserve state on failure for debugging
2. **Kill depends on work, not monitors** - Let monitors self-terminate
3. **Use `needs` for explicit dependencies** - Don't rely on ordering
4. **Keep prompts goal-oriented** - Tell agents *what* to achieve, not *how*
5. **Test with simple workflows first** - Add complexity incrementally

---

*See `.meow/workflows/` for complete working examples.*

Commit message:

feat: add __step_prefix__ built-in variable for template expansion
Adds the __step_prefix__ built-in variable that is injected during
template expansion. This allows templates to reference sibling steps
by their full prefixed ID, which is essential for patterns like the
persistence monitor where we need to check if "protocol.done" is
complete but the actual step ID is "agents.0.track.protocol.done".

The variable is now injected in all expansion paths:
- TemplateExpanderAdapter.Expand (direct expand steps)
- ExecuteExpand (branch target expansion)
- ExecuteForeach iterations (fixes missing injection bug)

Also:
- Skip validation for __ prefixed variables in baker
- Add E2E tests for step prefix in expand and foreach
- Document the feature in CLAUDE.md, ARCHITECTURE.md, PATTERNS.md

docs/PATTERNS.md, after:

# MEOW Patterns

Common patterns for MEOW workflows. These are battle-tested approaches implemented in the library templates.

---

## Basic Work Loop

A single agent that picks tasks and implements them in a loop.

```toml
[main]
name = "work-loop"

cleanup_on_success = """
git worktree remove .meow/worktrees/{{agent}} --force 2>/dev/null || true
"""

[main.variables]
agent = { required = true }

[[main.steps]]
id = "create-worktree"
executor = "shell"
command = """
git worktree add -b meow/{{agent}} .meow/worktrees/{{agent}} HEAD 2>/dev/null || true
echo ".meow/worktrees/{{agent}}"
"""

[main.steps.outputs]
path = { source = "stdout" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "spawn"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "{{agent}}"
workdir = "{{create-worktree.outputs.path}}"
needs = ["create-worktree"]

[[main.steps]]
id = "work"
executor = "agent"
agent = "{{agent}}"
prompt = """
Find and implement the next task.
When done, output whether there are more tasks.
"""
needs = ["spawn"]

[main.steps.outputs]
has_more = { required = true, type = "boolean" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "continue"
executor = "branch"
condition = "test '{{work.outputs.has_more}}' = 'true'"
needs = ["work"]

[main.steps.on_true]
template = ".work-iteration"
variables = { agent = "{{agent}}" }

[[main.steps]]
id = "cleanup"
executor = "kill"
agent = "{{agent}}"
needs = ["continue"]
```

---

## Ralph Wiggum (Agent Persistence)

Keep an agent working even when it stops unexpectedly. Uses event-based monitoring.

**Prerequisites:** Agent must emit `agent-stopped` events via its stop hook.

```toml
# Use the library template
[[main.steps]]
id = "spawn"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "worker"
workdir = "{{worktree}}"

[[main.steps]]
id = "main-work"
executor = "agent"
agent = "worker"
prompt = "Implement the feature..."
needs = ["spawn"]

# Start persistence monitor in parallel
[[main.steps]]
id = "persistence"
executor = "expand"
template = "lib/agent-persistence#monitor"
needs = ["spawn"]

[main.steps.variables]
agent = "worker"
nudge_prompt = "Continue working. Run 'meow done' when finished."
check_step = "main-work"

# Kill depends on main work, NOT the monitor
[[main.steps]]
id = "cleanup"
executor = "kill"
agent = "worker"
needs = ["main-work"]
```

**How it works:**
1. Monitor runs in parallel with main work
2. Waits for `agent-stopped` events with timeout
3. On event: re-injects nudge prompt via `fire_forget`
4. Checks if main step is done; loops if not
5. Self-terminates when main step completes

**Step ID prefixing:** When checking sibling step status from an expanded template, use `{{__step_prefix__}}` to construct the full prefixed step ID:

```toml
# In lib/agent-persistence, check_step needs the full prefixed ID
check_step = "{{__step_prefix__}}protocol.done"
# Resolves to e.g., "agents.0.track.protocol.done"
```

See `lib/agent-persistence.meow.toml` for the full implementation.

---

## Human Approval Gate

Block workflow until a human approves or rejects.

```toml
[[steps]]
id = "notify"
executor = "shell"
command = """
echo "=== REVIEW REQUIRED ==="
echo "Approve: meow approve review-gate --workflow {{workflow_id}}"
echo "Reject:  meow reject review-gate --workflow {{workflow_id}} --reason '...'"
"""

[[steps]]
id = "review-gate"
executor = "branch"
condition = "meow await-approval review-gate --timeout 24h"
needs = ["notify"]

[steps.on_true]
inline = []  # Continue on approval

[steps.on_false]
template = ".handle-rejection"
```

**How it works:**
- `meow approve` emits a `gate-approved` event
- `meow reject` emits a `gate-rejected` event
- `meow await-approval` waits for either event (exit 0 on approve, exit 1 on reject/timeout)

This uses the same event routing infrastructure as agent events, keeping the orchestrator simple.

---

## Parallel Agents with Join

Run multiple agents in parallel, then synchronize.

```toml
# Create worktrees in parallel
[[steps]]
id = "create-frontend-wt"
executor = "shell"
command = "git worktree add ... && echo path"

[steps.outputs]
path = { source = "stdout" }

[[steps]]
id = "create-backend-wt"
executor = "shell"
command = "git worktree add ... && echo path"

[steps.outputs]
path = { source = "stdout" }

# Spawn agents (can run in parallel since worktrees are independent)
[[steps]]
id = "spawn-frontend"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "frontend"
workdir = "{{create-frontend-wt.outputs.path}}"
needs = ["create-frontend-wt"]

[[steps]]
id = "spawn-backend"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "backend"
workdir = "{{create-backend-wt.outputs.path}}"
needs = ["create-backend-wt"]

# Work in parallel
[[steps]]
id = "frontend-work"
executor = "agent"
agent = "frontend"
prompt = "Implement the frontend..."
needs = ["spawn-frontend"]

[[steps]]
id = "backend-work"
executor = "agent"
agent = "backend"
prompt = "Implement the backend..."
needs = ["spawn-backend"]

# JOIN: waits for BOTH agents
[[steps]]
id = "integration"
executor = "agent"
agent = "frontend"
prompt = "Both done. Integrate and verify."
needs = ["frontend-work", "backend-work"]
```

**Key insight:** The join is implicit—any step with multiple `needs` waits for all of them.

---

## Dynamic Parallel (foreach)

Iterate over a runtime-generated list with parallel execution.

```toml
[[steps]]
id = "plan"
executor = "agent"
agent = "planner"
prompt = "Break this feature into subtasks. Output as JSON array."

[steps.outputs]
tasks = { required = true, type = "json" }

[[steps]]
id = "parallel-work"
executor = "foreach"
items = "{{plan.outputs.tasks}}"
item_var = "task"
index_var = "i"
template = ".worker-task"
max_concurrent = "3"
needs = ["plan"]

[steps.variables]
task_description = "{{task.description}}"
agent_id = "worker-{{i}}"

[[steps]]
id = "merge"
executor = "agent"
agent = "planner"
prompt = "All workers done. Merge the results."
needs = ["parallel-work"]  # Waits for ALL iterations (implicit join)
```

**Options:**
- `parallel = false` - Run iterations sequentially
- `join = false` - Don't wait for iterations (fire-and-forget)
- `max_concurrent = "N"` - Limit concurrent iterations

---

## Context Monitoring

Monitor agent context usage and trigger compaction when high.

```toml
[context-monitor]
internal = true

[[context-monitor.steps]]
id = "wait"
executor = "shell"
command = "sleep 30"

[[context-monitor.steps]]
id = "check-session"
executor = "branch"
condition = "tmux has-session -t meow-${MEOW_WORKFLOW}-{{agent}} 2>/dev/null"
needs = ["wait"]

[context-monitor.steps.on_false]
inline = []  # Session gone, exit

[context-monitor.steps.on_true]
template = ".check-context-level"

[check-context-level]
internal = true

[[check-context-level.steps]]
id = "get-percent"
executor = "shell"
command = """
# Screen-scrape tmux for context percentage
SESSION="meow-${MEOW_WORKFLOW}-{{agent}}"
PERCENT=$(tmux capture-pane -p -t "$SESSION" -S -100 2>/dev/null | \
    grep -oE '[0-9]+%' | tail -1 | tr -d '%')
echo "${PERCENT:-0}"
"""

[check-context-level.steps.outputs]
percent = { source = "stdout" }

[[check-context-level.steps]]
id = "check-threshold"
executor = "branch"
condition = "test {{get-percent.outputs.percent}} -ge 85"
needs = ["get-percent"]

[check-context-level.steps.on_true]
template = ".inject-compact"

[check-context-level.steps.on_false]
template = ".context-monitor"  # Loop

[inject-compact]
internal = true

[[inject-compact.steps]]
id = "compact"
executor = "agent"
agent = "{{agent}}"
prompt = "/compact"
mode = "fire_forget"

[[inject-compact.steps]]
id = "wait"
executor = "shell"
command = "sleep 60"
needs = ["compact"]

[[inject-compact.steps]]
id = "continue"
executor = "expand"
template = ".context-monitor"
needs = ["wait"]
```

---

## Fire-and-Forget Commands

Send commands to agents without waiting for completion.

```toml
# Send /compact without waiting
[[steps]]
id = "trigger-compact"
executor = "agent"
agent = "worker"
prompt = "/compact"
mode = "fire_forget"

# Send Escape to interrupt
[[steps]]
id = "interrupt"
executor = "agent"
agent = "worker"
prompt = "Escape"
mode = "fire_forget"
```

**Use cases:**
- Slash commands (`/compact`, `/clear`)
- Key presses (`Escape`)
- Any prompt where you don't need a response

---

## Conditional Branching

Run different paths based on a condition.

```toml
[[steps]]
id = "check-tests"
executor = "branch"
condition = "npm test"

[steps.on_true]
template = ".deploy"  # Tests pass, deploy

[steps.on_false]
template = ".fix-tests"  # Tests fail, fix them
```

**With timeout:**
```toml
[[steps]]
id = "wait-for-ci"
executor = "branch"
condition = "./scripts/wait-for-ci.sh"
timeout = "30m"

[steps.on_true]
inline = []  # CI passed

[steps.on_false]
template = ".handle-ci-failure"

[steps.on_timeout]
template = ".handle-ci-timeout"
```

---

## Idempotent Shell Commands

Shell commands should be safe to re-run (for crash recovery).

**Bad:**
```toml
command = "git worktree add -b meow/agent .meow/worktrees/agent HEAD"
# Fails if worktree exists
```

**Good:**
```toml
command = """
if [ ! -d ".meow/worktrees/agent" ]; then
  git worktree add -b meow/agent .meow/worktrees/agent HEAD
fi
echo ".meow/worktrees/agent"
"""
```

**Also good (suppress errors):**
```toml
command = """
git worktree add -b meow/agent .meow/worktrees/agent HEAD 2>/dev/null || true
echo ".meow/worktrees/agent"
"""
```

---

## Setting Up Claude Events

Configure Claude Code's Stop hook to emit MEOW events.

```toml
[[steps]]
id = "setup-hooks"
executor = "shell"
command = """
mkdir -p {{worktree}}/.claude
cat > {{worktree}}/.claude/settings.json << 'EOF'
{
  "hooks": {
    "Stop": [{"type": "command", "command": "meow event agent-stopped"}]
  }
}
EOF
"""

[[steps]]
id = "spawn"
executor = "spawn"
agent = "worker"
workdir = "{{worktree}}"
needs = ["setup-hooks"]
```

See `lib/claude-events.meow.toml` for a reusable template.

---

## Best Practices

1. **Cleanup on success only** - Preserve state on failure for debugging
2. **Kill depends on work, not monitors** - Let monitors self-terminate
3. **Use `needs` for explicit dependencies** - Don't rely on ordering
4. **Keep prompts goal-oriented** - Tell agents *what* to achieve, not *how*
5. **Test with simple workflows first** - Add complexity incrementally

---

*See `.meow/workflows/` for complete working examples.*
